\input texinfo    @c -*- texinfo -*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename ./with-editor.info
@settitle With-Editor User Manual
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@copying
@ifnottex
The library @code{with-editor} makes it easy to use the Emacsclient as
the @code{$EDITOR} of child processes, making sure they know how to call
home.  For remote processes a substitute is provided, which communicates
with Emacs on standard output instead of using a socket as the Emacsclient
does.

This library was written because Magit has to be able to do the above
to allow the user to edit commit messages gracefully and to edit
rebase sequences, which wouldn't be possible at all otherwise.

Because other packages can benefit from such functionality, this
library is made available as a separate package.  It also defines some
additional functionality which makes it useful even for end-users, who
don't use Magit or another package which uses it internally.
@end ifnottex

@quotation
Copyright (C) 2015 Jonas Bernoulli <jonas@@bernoul.li>

You can redistribute this document and/or modify it under the terms
of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

This document is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* With-Editor: (with-editor). Using the Emacsclient as $EDITOR.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title With-Editor User Manual
@subtitle for version 2.2
@author Jonas Bernoulli
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top With-Editor User Manual
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex


@menu
* Using the With-Editor package::
* Using With-Editor as a library::
* Debugging::

@detailmenu
--- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Using the With-Editor package

* Configuring With-Editor::
* Using With-Editor commands::

@end detailmenu
@end menu



@node Using the With-Editor package
@chapter Using the With-Editor package

The @code{With-Editor} package is used internally by Magit when editing
commit messages and rebase sequences.  It also provides some commands
and features which are useful by themselves, even if you don't use
Magit.

For information about using this library in you own package, see
@ref{Using With-Editor as a library,Using With-Editor as a library}.

@menu
* Configuring With-Editor::
* Using With-Editor commands::
@end menu

@node Configuring With-Editor
@section Configuring With-Editor

With-Editor tries very hard to locate a suitable emacsclient
executable, so ideally you should never have to customize the option
@code{with-editor-emacsclient-executable}.  When it fails to do so, then the
most likely reason is that someone found yet another way to package
Emacs (most likely on OS X) without putting the executable on @code{$PATH},
and we have to add another kludge to find it anyway.

@defopt with-editor-emacsclient-executable

The emacsclient executable used as the editor by child process of
this Emacs instance.  By using this executable, child processes can
call home to their parent process.

This option is automatically set at startup by looking in @code{exec-path},
and other places where the executable could be installed, to find
the emacsclient executable most suitable for the current emacs
instance.

You should @strong{not} customize this option permanently.  If you have to do
it, then you should consider that a temporary kludge and inform the
Magit maintainer as described in @ref{Debugging,Debugging}.

If With-Editor fails to find a suitable emacsclient on you system,
then this should be fixed for all users at once, by teaching
@code{with-editor-locate-emacsclient} how to so on your system and system
like yours. Doing it this way has the advantage, that you won't have
do it again every time you update Emacs, and that other users who
have installed Emacs the same way as you have, won't have to go
through the same trouble.

Note that there also is a nuclear option; setting this variable to
@code{nil} causes the "sleeping editor" described below to be used even for
local child processes.  Obviously we don't recommend that you use
this except in "emergencies", i.e. before we had a change to add a
kludge appropriate for you setup.
@end defopt

@defun with-editor-locate-emacsclient

The function used to set the initial value of the option
@code{with-editor-emacsclient-executable}.  There's a lot of voodoo here.
@end defun

The emacsclient cannot be used when using Tramp to run a process on a
remote machine.  (Theoretically it could, but that would be hard to
setup, very fragile, and rather insecure).

With-Editor provides an alternative "editor" which can be used by
remote processes in much the same way as local processes use an
emacsclient executable.  This alternative is known as the "sleeping
editor" because it is implemented as a shell script which sleeps until
it receives a signal.

@defopt with-editor-sleeping-editor

The sleeping editor is a shell script used as the editor of child
processes when the emacsclient executable cannot be used.

This fallback is used for asynchronous process started inside the
macro @code{with-editor}, when the process runs on a remote machine or for
local processes when @code{with-editor-emacsclient-executable} is @code{nil}.

Where the latter uses a socket to communicate with Emacs' server,
this substitute prints edit requests to its standard output on
which a process filter listens for such requests.  As such it is
not a complete substitute for a proper Emacsclient, it can only
be used as @code{$EDITOR} of child process of the current Emacs instance.

It is unlikely that you should ever have to customize this option.
@end defopt

@node Using With-Editor commands
@section Using With-Editor commands

This section describes how to use the @code{with-editor} library @emph{outside} of
Magit.  You don't need to know any of this just to create commits
using Magit.

The commands @code{with-editor-async-shell-command} and
@code{with-editor-shell-command} are intended as drop in replacements for
@code{async-shell-command} and @code{shell-command}.  They automatically export
@code{$EDITOR} making sure the executed command uses the current Emacs
instance as "the editor".  With a prefix argument these commands
prompt for an alternative environment variable such as @code{$GIT_EDITOR}.

@cindex with-editor-async-shell-command
@deffn Command with-editor-async-shell-command

Like @code{async-shell-command}, but the command is run with the current
Emacs instance exported as @code{$EDITOR}.
@end deffn

@cindex with-editor-shell-command
@deffn Command with-editor-shell-command

Like @code{async-shell-command}, but the command is run with the current
Emacs instance exported as @code{$EDITOR}.  This only has an effect if
the command is run asynchronously, i.e. when the command ends
with @code{&}.
@end deffn

To always use these variants add this to you init file:

@lisp
(define-key (current-global-map)
  [remap async-shell-command] 'with-editor-async-shell-command)
(define-key (current-global-map)
  [remap shell-command] 'with-editor-shell-command)
@end lisp

Alternatively use the global @code{shell-command-with-editor-mode}.

@defvar shell-command-with-editor-mode

When this mode is active, then @code{$EDITOR} is exported whenever
ultimately @code{shell-command} is called to asynchronously run some shell
command.  This affects most variants of that command, whether they
are defined in Emacs or in some third-party package.
@end defvar

The command @code{with-editor-export-editor} exports @code{$EDITOR} or
another such environment variable in @code{shell-mode}, @code{term-mode} and
@code{eshell-mode} buffers.  Use this Emacs command before executing a
shell command which needs the editor set, or always arrange for the
current Emacs instance to be used as editor by adding it to the
appropriate mode hooks:

@lisp
(add-hook 'shell-mode-hook  'with-editor-export-editor)
(add-hook 'term-mode-hook   'with-editor-export-editor)
(add-hook 'eshell-mode-hook 'with-editor-export-editor)
@end lisp

Some variants of this function exist; these two forms are equivalent:

@lisp
(add-hook 'shell-mode-hook
          (apply-partially 'with-editor-export-editor "GIT_EDITOR"))
(add-hook 'shell-mode-hook 'with-editor-export-git-editor)
@end lisp

@cindex with-editor-export-editor
@deffn Command with-editor-export-editor

When invoked in a @code{shell-mode}, @code{term-mode}, or @code{eshell-mode} buffer, this
command teaches shell commands to use the current Emacs instance as
the editor, by exporting @code{$EDITOR}.
@end deffn

@cindex with-editor-export-git-editor
@deffn Command with-editor-export-git-editor

Like @code{with-editor-export-editor} but exports @code{$GIT_EDITOR}.
@end deffn

@cindex with-editor-export-hg-editor
@deffn Command with-editor-export-hg-editor

Like @code{with-editor-export-editor} but exports @code{$HG_EDITOR}.
@end deffn

@node Using With-Editor as a library
@chapter Using With-Editor as a library

This section describes how to use the @verb{~with-editor~} library @emph{outside} of
Magit to teach another package how to have its child processes call
home, just like Magit does.  You don't need to know any of this just
to create commits using Magit.  You can also ignore this if you use
@code{with-editor} outside of Magit, but only as an end-user.

For information about interactive use and options which affect both
interactive and non-interactive use, see @ref{Using the With-Editor package,Using the With-Editor package}.

@defmac with-editor &rest body

This macro arranges for the emacsclient or the sleeping editor to be
used as the editor of child processes, effectively teaching them to
call home to the current emacs instance when they require that the
user edits a file.

This is essentially done by establishing a local binding for
@code{process-environment} and changing the value of the @code{$EDITOR}
environment variable.  This affects all processes started by forms
inside BODY.
@end defmac

@defun with-editor-set-process-filter process filter

This function is like @code{set-process-filter} but ensures that adding the
new FILTER does not remove the @code{with-editor-process-filter}.  This is
done by wrapping the two filter functions using a lambda, which
becomes the actual filter.  It calls @code{with-editor-process-filter}
first, passing @code{t} as NO-STANDARD-FILTER.  Then it calls FILTER.
@end defun

@node Debugging
@chapter Debugging

With-Editor tries very hard to locate a suitable emacsclient
executable, and then sets option @code{with-editor-emacsclient-executable}
accordingly.  In very rare cases this fails.  When it does fail, then
the most likely reason is that someone found yet another way to
package Emacs (most likely on OS X) without putting the executable on
@code{$PATH}, and we have to add another kludge to find it anyway.

If you are having problems using @code{with-editor}, e.g. you cannot commit
in Magit, then please open a new issue at
@uref{https://github.com/magit/magit/issues} and provide information about
your Emacs installation.  Most importantly how did you install Emacs
and what is the output of @code{M-x with-editor-debug}?

@bye
